PD-121 update directory services articles (#1759)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/Credentials/DirectoryServices/ConfigADSCALE.md

To configure an AD connection, you must know the AD controller domain and the AD system account credentials.

### Preparing to Configure AD in SCALE

Users can take a few steps before configuring Active Directory (AD) to ensure the connection process goes smoothly.

* You need the Relative Distinguished Name (RDN) of the site object. This is the first component of the distinguishedName property configured in AD.
{{< expand "Need AD Help?" "v" >}}
To locate the distiguished name: 

1. Log into AD.
2. Click on **View** and select **Advanced Features**.
3. Navigate to and right-click on the organizational unit (OU) where you want to read users, service or computer accounts, then select **Properties**.
4. Select the **Attribute Editor** tab on the **OU Properties** window.
5. Click on **distinguishedName** to highlight it then click **View**.
{{< /expand >}}
* You also need the AD admin account name and password.

> If you plan to use [Kerberos]({{< relref "ConfigKerberosSCALE.md" >}}), configure the realm and keytabs, change Kerberos settings if required, then edit the Active Directory instance you configured in SCALE (listed on the **Active Directory** widget).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you plan to configure the [Kerberos]({{< relref "ConfigKerberosSCALE.md" >}}) realm and keytabs or change Kerberos settings, then edit the Active Directory instance you configured in SCALE (listed on the Active Directory widget).
```

### Preparing to Configure AD in SCALE

Users can take a few steps before configuring Active Directory (AD) to ensure the connection process goes smoothly.

1. Obtain the AD admin account name and password.  

3. [Verify name resolution](#verifying-name-resolution)

5. [Set type synchronization](#setting-time-synchronization)

After taking these actions, you can [connect to the Active Directory domain](#connecting-to-the-active-directory-domain).

### Verifying Name Resolution

To confirm that name resolution is functioning, you can use the **Shell** and issue a `ping` command and a command to check network SRV records and verify DNS resolution.

To use `dig` to verify name resolution and return DNS information:

1. Go to **System Settings > Shell** and type `dig` to check the connection to the AD domain controller. 
   The domain controller manages or restricts access to domain resources by authenticating user identity from one domain to the other through a login credentials, and it prevents unauthorized access to these resources. The domain controller applies security policies to request-for-access domain resources.

>    ![DigCommandOutput](/images/scale/22.12/DigCommandOutput.png "Dig Command Output")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ![DigCommandOutput](/images/SCALE/22.12/DigCommandOutput.png "Dig Command Output")
```

Reviewer: Image is not displaying.

To configure an AD connection, you must know the AD controller domain and the AD system account credentials.

### Preparing to Configure AD in SCALE

Users can take a few steps before configuring Active Directory (AD) to ensure the connection process goes smoothly.

1. Locate the Relative Distinguished Name (RDN) of the site object. 
   This is the first component of the distinguishedName property configured in AD.
   {{< expand "Need AD Help?" "v" >}}
   To locate the distinguished name: 

   1. Log into AD.
   2. Click on **View** and select **Advanced Features**.
   3. Navigate to and right-click on the organizational unit (OU) where you want to read users, service or computer accounts, then select **Properties**.
   4. Select the **Attribute Editor** tab on the **OU Properties** window.
   5. Click on **distinguishedName** to highlight it then click **View**.

>    {{< /expand >}}

Reviewer 2: What are you trying to do here?

Author: Providing basic help with AD not SCALE. If this is not helpful, I'll remove this. If it needs clarification I'll add that.

Reviewer 2: What field are you trying to populate with this information?

2. Obtain the AD admin account name and password.  

3. [Verify name resolution](#verifying-name-resolution)

5. [Set type synchronization](#setting-time-synchronization)

After taking these actions, you can [connect to the Active Directory domain](#connecting-to-the-active-directory-domain).

### Verifying Name Resolution

To confirm that name resolution is functioning, you can use the **Shell** and issue a `ping` command and a command to check network SRV records and verify DNS resolution.

To use `ping` to verify name resolution:

1. Go to **System Settings > Shell** and type `ping` to check the connection to the AD domain controller. 

>    The domain controller manages or restricts access to domain resources by authenticating user identity from one domain to the other through a login credentials, and it prevents unauthorized access to these resources. The domain controller applies security policies to request-for-access domain resources.

Reviewer 2: Ping isn't a good tool for this. `dig` is better. You should be able to get SRV records for the AD domain prior to joining. Some users misconfigure DNS in subtle ways (using non-AD nameservers)

Author: I was not able to get SRV record back when I set up AD. Is that common?

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by get SRV record back? Perhaps DNS was misconfigured in your case (for example having non-AD nameservers). You should always be able to retrieve SRV records.

Author: I didn't see the one-to-one in the old procedure, so my guess is it goes in the **Domain** field.

TrueNAS displays any errors during the join process in the **Task Manager**.
{{< /expand >}}

When the import completes, AD users and groups become available while configuring basic dataset permissions or an ACL with TrueNAS cache enabled (enabled by default).

Joining AD also adds default Kerberos realms and generates a default **AD_MACHINE_ACCOUNT** keytab.
TrueNAS automatically begins using this default keytab and removes any administrator credentials stored in the TrueNAS configuration file.

### Troubleshooting - Resyncing the Cache
If the cache becomes out of sync or fewer users than expected are available in the permissions editors, resync it by clicking **Settings** in the **Active Directory** window and selecting **Rebuild Directory Service Cache**.

> If you are using Windows Server with 2008 R2 or older, try creating a **Computer** entry on the Windows server Organizational Unit (OU).

Reviewer 2: Remove this portion. Server 2008R2 is EOL and we can't maintain docs for it.

Author: Removed

When creating the entry, enter the TrueNAS hostname in the name field and make sure it matches the:

* **Hostname**: Go to **Network** and find **Hostname** in the **Global Configuration** window.

> * **NetBIOS alias**: Go to **Credentials > Directory Services** and click **Settings** in the **Active Directory** window. Click **Advanced Options** and find the **NetBIOS alias**.

Reviewer 2: What are you doing with nebios aliases here? Netbios aliases should be unique (if they are used at all). The netbios name is what is used to join AD and will be used to update AD DNS (if that default option is enabled)

Author: corrected in new edits.

## Disabling Active Directory

You can disable your AD server connection without deleting your configuration or leaving the AD domain. 
Click **Settings** to open the **Active Directory** settings screen, then select the **Enable** checkbox to clear it, and click **Save** to disable SCALE AD service. 
This returns you to the main **Directory Services** screen where you see the two main directory services configuration options. 

> To configure LDAP service, click **Configure LDAP** or To turn AD service back on. 

Reviewer 2: Why are we talking about LDAP here? The two are mutually exclusive.

Author: removed this line

Click **Configure Active Directory** to open the **Active Directory** screen with your existing configuration settings. 
Select **Enable** again, click **Save** to reactivate your connection to your AD server.

## Leaving Active Directory

> TrueNAS SCALE requires users to cleanly leave an Active Directory if you want to delete the configuration. To cleanly leave AD, use the **Leave Domain** button on the **Active Directory Advanced Settings** screen to remove the AD object. 

Reviewer 2: Remove the computer account and associated DNS records from active directory.
